**Content**: the .tex file of my final MSc in Finance Thesis

**Code**: Figure 18 in the Appendix (page 53) also includes a brief STATA code I implemented to automatically run the time-series regressions needed to perform the empirical exercise of the thesis.

**Name of the Thesis**: Factor-based Investing: empirical analysis on style factors during different types of crisis

**Abstract**: Factor-Based investing has become an extensively discussed subject in today’s asset management universe. In particular, by Factor-Based investing one means a set of investment strategies focusing on specific securities characteristics that are fundamental in explaining their risk and return. The aim of this work is to investigate how do risk factors behave during six of the most critical crises of the last thirty years, namely the Asian Crisis of 1997, the 1998 turmoil, the Dot-com Bubble, the 2008 Financial Crisis, the peak of the European Debt Crisis and, most importantly, the COVID-19 Pandemic.

Firstly, factors are built by implementing self-financing strategies, i.e. going long one dimension by shorting the opposite exposure. The two datasets (one world-based and the other US-based) are then subdivided in order to consider the aforementioned crises by also maintaining a robust number of observations.

The methodology part is then split in two complementary building blocks. The first summarizes the risk-return performances of equity styles (market, valuation, size, momentum, low volatility and quality), fixed income risk premia (credit, high yield and term spread) and the typical asset classes, despite the emphasis is mostly put on equity- oriented styles throughout the whole work. Key findings over the whole period (1997- 2020) and by single crisis are discussed, with a focus on COVID-19, where the evidence supports the premise of factor investing not being excluded from the aftermaths of the pandemic. The second subsection implements a crisis regime analysis, whose purpose is to understand how the returns of the worst performing stocks were explained by the different factors in the different crises. Hence, several time-series regressions are run to highlight how were these firms exposed to equity styles, before entering the debacles.

Overall, style factors behave in a heterogenous manner when considering these six crises, but some common elements are often verified. Conclusions are coherent with existing literature, with particular evidence of the importance of crises’ nature, but with encountered cross-crisis patterns for valuation and size, as these two suffered the most regardless of the intrinsic essence of the debacles themselves. The severity of COVID-19 on factor investing is also a crucial outcome, in addition to the absence of evidence of a definitive winner between factor-based investing vs. asset class investing. Re-running the analysis by building the long- short portfolios thanks to exposure-stock- picking represents the most intriguing follow-up research, despite expected discrepancies with the usage of indices, i.e. as done in this work, remain limited.
